We'll put some happy little leaves here and there. Didn't you know you had that much power? You can move mountains. You can do anything. You're the greatest thing that has ever been or ever will be. You're special. You're so very special. You can spend all day playing with mountains.

We want to use a lot pressure while using no pressure at all. Only God can make a tree - but you can paint one. All you have to do is let your imagination go wild. It's a super day, so why not make a beautiful sky?

Just use the old one inch brush. It's a good way of getting rid of all your anxieties and hostilities. If you do too much it's going to lose its effectiveness. So often we avoid running water, and running water is a lot of fun. Isn't that fantastic? You can just push a little tree out of your brush like that.

The first step to doing anything is to believe you can do it. See it finished in your mind before you ever start. Don't forget to tell these special people in your life just how special they are to you. Here we're limited by the time we have. Isn't it great to do something you can't fail at?

At home you have unlimited time. This is the time to get out all your flustrations, much better than kicking the dog around the house or taking it out on your spouse. Nothing wrong with washing your brush. We're trying to teach you a technique here and how to use it.

When you do it your way you can go anywhere you choose. Volunteering your time; it pays you and your whole community fantastic dividends. Clouds are free they come and go as they please.

There are no limits in this world. Automatically, all of these beautiful, beautiful things will happen. There's nothing wrong with having a tree as a friend. When things happen - enjoy them. They're little gifts.

When you buy that first tube of paint it gives you an artist license. I think there's an artist hidden in the bottom of every single one of us. I'm going to mix up a little color. We’ll use Van Dyke Brown, Permanent Red, and a little bit of Prussian Blue. Let's build an almighty mountain. No worries. No cares. Just float and wait for the wind to blow you around. Work on one thing at a time. Don't get carried away - we have plenty of time.

Everybody needs a friend. I sincerely wish for you every possible joy life could bring. Let's put some happy little bushes on the other side now. It's almost like something out of a fairytale book. It is a lot of fun.

This is probably the greatest thing to happen in my life - to be able to share this with you. Those great big fluffy clouds. It's so important to do something every day that will make you happy.

Don't fight it, use what happens. There are no mistakes. You can fix anything that happens. The only thing worse than yellow snow is green snow.

That's crazy. Just think about these things in your mind and drop em' on canvas. The little tiny Tim easels will let you down.

It's beautiful - and we haven't even done anything to it yet. Let all these little things happen. Don't fight them. Learn to use them. Trees grow in all kinds of ways. They're not all perfectly straight. Not every limb is perfect. They say everything looks better with odd numbers of things. But sometimes I put even numbers—just to upset the critics. You don't have to spend all your time thinking about what you're doing, you just let it happen. Just a happy little shadow that lives in there.

You could sit here for weeks with your one hair brush trying to do that - or you could do it with one stroke with an almighty brush. There isn't a rule. You just practice and find out which way works best for you. Talent is a pursued interest. That is to say, anything you practice you can do.

It looks so good, I might as well not stop. La- da- da- da- dah. Just be happy. Fluff it up a little and hypnotize it. Maybe we got a few little happy bushes here, just covered with snow.

Everybody's different. Trees are different. Let them all be individuals. We'll put all the little clouds in and let them dance around and have fun. Let's have a happy little tree in here. Absolutely no pressure. You are just a whisper floating across a mountain. Don't be bashful drop me a line. Maybe there was an old trapper that lived out here and maybe one day he went to check his beaver traps, and maybe he fell into the river and drowned.

I'm sort of a softy, I couldn't shoot Bambi except with a camera. Only think about one thing at a time. Don't get greedy. Don't fiddle with it all day. Sometimes you learn more from your mistakes than you do from your masterpieces. Let's put a touch more of the magic here.

We can always carry this a step further. There's really no end to this. That's the way I look when I get home late; black and blue. In your world you can create anything you desire. That's why I paint - because I can create the kind of world I want - and I can make this world as happy as I want it.

Just let go - and fall like a little waterfall. Isn't that fantastic that you can create an almighty tree that fast? We don't really know where this goes - and I'm not sure we really care.

Don't hurry. Take your time and enjoy. That's a crooked tree. We'll send him to Washington. Let's have a nice tree right here. This is a happy place, little squirrels live here and play. It's important to me that you're happy.

Let's get wild today. A fan brush is a fantastic piece of equipment. Use it. Make friends with it. Everyone needs a friend. Friends are the most valuable things in the world.

Even trees need a friend. We all need friends. A thin paint will stick to a thick paint. Now we'll take the almighty fan brush. In your imagination you can go anywhere you want. We don't have to be concerned about it. We just have to let it fall where it will. In life you need colors.

Just go out and talk to a tree. Make friends with it. You have to make almighty decisions when you're the creator. Now we don't want him to get lonely, so we'll give him a little friend.

See. We take the corner of the brush and let it play back-and-forth. Fluff that up. That's a son of a gun of a cloud. We don't have to be committed. We are just playing here. A tree needs to be your friend if you're going to paint him. You can do anything your heart can imagine.

Let your heart be your guide. You're meant to have fun in life. Use absolutely no pressure. Just like an angel's wing. Now, we're going to fluff this cloud. Put your feelings into it, your heart, it's your world.

Any little thing can be your friend if you let it be. How do you make a round circle with a square knife? That's your challenge for the day. See there how easy that is. Let the paint work. These trees are so much fun. I get started on them and I have a hard time stopping.

In this world, everything can be happy. Maybe there's a happy little Evergreen that lives here. Isn't that fantastic? Each highlight must have it's own private shadow. Just think about these things in your mind - then bring them into your world.

We must be quiet, soft and gentle. Nice little fluffy clouds laying around in the sky being lazy. Remember how free clouds are. They just lay around in the sky all day long. Only eight colors that you need.

You have to make those little noises or it won't work. Now let's put some happy little clouds in here. Use your imagination, let it go.

Just pretend you are a whisper floating across a mountain. Look around, look at what we have. Beauty is everywhere, you only have to look to see it. We don't need any guidelines or formats. All we need to do is just let it flow right out of us. Let your heart take you to wherever you want to be.

Let's get crazy. We have a fantastic little sky! We'll make some happy little bushes here. I'll go over the colors one more time that we use: Titanium white, Thalo green, Prussian blue, Van Dyke brown, Alizarin crimson, Sap green, Cad yellow, and Permanent red. In your world you have total and absolute power.

It's life. It's interesting. It's fun. Trees live in your fan brush, but you have to scare them out. We'll throw some old gray clouds in here just sneaking around and having fun.

We can fix anything. I'm gonna start with a little Alizarin crimson and a touch of Prussian blue Let's make some happy little clouds in our world.

You can do anything here - the only pre-requisite is that it makes you happy. And that's when it becomes fun - you don't have to spend your time thinking about what's happening - you just let it happen. Everything's not great in life, but we can still find beauty in it. Let's go up in here, and start having some fun

A happy cloud. Let's make a nice big leafy tree. I really believe that if you practice enough you could paint the 'Mona Lisa' with a two-inch brush. Decide where your cloud lives. Maybe he lives right in here.

The only prerequisite is that it makes you happy. If it makes you happy then it's good. And right there you got an almighty cloud. And I will hypnotize that just a little bit. Let's have a little bit of fun today.

If you overwork it you become a cloud killer. There's nothing worse than a cloud killer. We don't make mistakes we just have happy little accidents. Be brave.

You gotta think like a tree. Be so very light. Be a gentle whisper. This is your world, whatever makes you happy you can put in it. Go crazy.

Just beat the devil out of it. Talk to trees, look at the birds. Whatever it takes. All you have to learn here is how to have fun.

You create the dream - then you bring it into your world. Trees grow however makes them happy. If we're gonna walk though the woods, we need a little path. This piece of canvas is your world. Nothing's gonna make your husband or wife madder than coming home and having a snow-covered dinner. It's a very cold picture, I may have to go get my coat. It’s about to freeze me to death.

I started painting as a hobby when I was little. I didn't know I had any talent. I believe talent is just a pursued interest. Anybody can do what I do. Put light against light - you have nothing. Put dark against dark - you have nothing. It's the contrast of light and dark that each give the other one meaning. All you need to paint is a few tools, a little instruction, and a vision in your mind. There's not a thing in the world wrong with washing your brush. Just relax and let it flow. That easy. What the devil.

Happy painting, God bless. I'm a water fanatic. I love water. Of course he's a happy little stone, cause we don't have any other kind.

We'll lay all these little funky little things in there. You can create anything that makes you happy. Pretend you're water. Just floating without any effort. Having a good day.

Every day I learn. Maybe there's a happy little waterfall happening over here. Nice little clouds playing around in the sky. Put it in, leave it alone. Once you learn the technique, ohhh! Turn you loose on the world; you become a tiger. If these lines aren't straight, your water's going to run right out of your painting and get your floor wet.

Life is too short to be alone, too precious. Share it with a friend. We don't want to set these clouds on fire. There is no right or wrong - as long as it makes you happy and doesn't hurt anyone.

Maybe there's a happy little bush that lives right there. Don't be afraid to make these big decisions. Once you start, they sort of just make themselves. We have no limits to our world. We're only limited by our imagination. Everything is happy if you choose to make it that way. Use what happens naturally, don't fight it. Go out on a limb - that's where the fruit is.

Let's build some happy little clouds up here. Even the worst thing we can do here is good. You can get away with a lot.

A beautiful little sunset. Just make little strokes like that. Isn't it fantastic that you can change your mind and create all these happy things? I spend a lot of time walking around in the woods and talking to trees, and squirrels, and little rabbits and stuff. If it's not what you want - stop and change it. Don't just keep going and expect it will get better.

Everyone wants to enjoy the good parts - but you have to build the framework first. You have to allow the paint to break to make it beautiful. I want everbody to be happy. That's what it's all about.

That's what makes life fun. That you can make these decisions. That you can create the world that you want. Almost everything is going to happen for you automatically - you don't have to spend any time working or worrying. With practice comes confidence. Painting should do one thing. It should put happiness in your heart. We tell people sometimes: we're like drug dealers, come into town and get everybody absolutely addicted to painting. It doesn't take much to get you addicted.

If you hypnotize it, it will go away. Imagination is the key to painting. With something so strong, a little bit can go a long way.

Very easy to work these to death. Just let your mind wander and enjoy. This should make you happy. We might as well make some Almighty mountains today as well, what the heck. Just go back and put one little more happy tree in there. From all of us here, I want to wish you happy painting and God bless, my friends.

There we go. Steve wants reflections, so let's give him reflections. Let your imagination be your guide. It's amazing what you can do with a little love in your heart.

Anything you want to do you can do here. We artists are a different breed of people. We're a happy bunch. Brown is such a nice color. It's cold, but it's beautiful. You are only limited by your imagination. We need dark in order to show light.

Mix your color marbly don't mix it dead. Use what you see, don't plan it. Every single thing in the world has its own personality - and it is up to you to make friends with the little rascals. I like to beat the brush.

Get tough with it, get strong. Here's something that's fun. Let your imagination be your guide. There is immense joy in just watching - watching all the little creatures in nature.

This is truly an almighty mountain. Every highlight needs it's own personal shadow. We'll do another happy little painting. The shadows are just like the highlights, but we're going in the opposite direction. I guess I'm a little weird. I like to talk to trees and animals. That's okay though; I have more fun than most people. Now then, let's play.

The more we do this - the more it will do good things to our heart. It just happens - whether or not you worried about it or tried to plan it. You have to make these big decisions.

No pressure. Just relax and watch it happen. I get carried away with this brush cleaning. The light is your friend. Preserve it. A tree cannot be straight if it has a crooked trunk. We don't have anything but happy trees here. These little son of a guns hide in your brush and you just have to push them out.

That's what painting is all about. It should make you feel good when you paint. Poor old tree. We'll have a super time.

We start with a vision in our heart, and we put it on canvas. Van Dyke Brown is a very nice brown, it's almost like a chocolate brown. Think about a cloud. Just float around and be there. I was blessed with a very steady hand; and it comes in very handy when you're doing these little delicate things.

We wash our brush with odorless thinner. Tree trunks grow however makes them happy. You better get your coat out, this is going to be a cold painting. Trees get lonely too, so we'll give him a little friend. In nature, dead trees are just as normal as live trees. That is when you can experience true joy, when you have no fear.

Paint anything you want on the canvas. Create your own world. But they're very easily killed. Clouds are delicate. You can't make a mistake. Anything that happens you can learn to use - and make something beautiful out of it. We spend so much of our life looking - but never seeing. You can do anything here. So don't worry about it. Son of a gun.

Everyone is going to see things differently - and that's the way it should be. This is where you take out all your hostilities and frustrations. It's better than kicking the puppy dog around and all that so. You can work and carry-on and put lots of little happy things in here. This is probably the greatest thing that's ever happened in my life. Anyone can paint. If you've been in Alaska less than a year you're a Cheechako.

Little trees and bushes grow however makes them happy. Let's put some highlights on these little trees. The sun wouldn't forget them. You've got to learn to fight the temptation to resist these things. Just let them happen. Maybe there's a little something happening right here. I will take some magic white, and a little bit of Vandyke brown and a little touch of yellow. If I paint something, I don't want to have to explain what it is.

You got your heavy coat out yet? It's getting colder. If we're going to have animals around we all have to be concerned about them and take care of them. For the lack of a better word I call them hangy downs. You can create beautiful things - but you have to see them in your mind first. And just raise cain.

This is your world. As trees get older they lose their chlorophyll. This is the fun part

Now it's beginning to make a little sense. Exercising the imagination, experimenting with talents, being creative; these things, to me, are truly the windows to your soul. But we're not there yet, so we don't need to worry about it. Let's give him a friend too. Everybody needs a friend.

This is your creation - and it's just as unique and special as you are. This painting comes right out of your heart. You can't have light without dark. You can't know happiness unless you've known sorrow.

Just let this happen. We just let this flow right out of our minds. Water's like me. It's laaazy ... Boy, it always looks for the easiest way to do things This is unplanned it really just happens. Learn when to stop. Don't kill all your dark areas - you need them to show the light. Nature is so fantastic, enjoy it. Let it make you happy.

Clouds are free. They just float around the sky all day and have fun. You want your tree to have some character. Make it special. All kinds of happy little splashes. Let's do it again then, what the heck.

Be careful. You can always add more - but you can't take it away. Let's do that again. Just take out whatever you don't want. It'll change your entire perspective. Making all those little fluffies that live in the clouds.

The least little bit can do so much. It's hard to see things when you're too close. Take a step back and look. See there, told you that would be easy. You can do it.

If you don't like it - change it. It's your world. Now we can begin working on lots of happy little things. We'll play with clouds today. Anytime you learn something your time and energy are not wasted. Just make a decision and let it go.

If you didn't have baby clouds, you wouldn't have big clouds. You can create the world you want to see and be a part of. You have that power. In painting, you have unlimited power. You have the ability to move mountains. You can bend rivers. But when I get home, the only thing I have power over is the garbage. The very fact that you're aware of suffering is enough reason to be overjoyed that you're alive and can experience it. A big strong tree needs big strong roots. Working it up and down, back and forth.

I can't think of anything more rewarding than being able to express yourself to others through painting. A little happy sunlight shining through there. Maybe he has a little friend that lives right over here. Get away from those little Christmas tree things we used to make in school.

These things happen automatically. All you have to do is just let them happen. And I know you're saying, 'Oh Bob, you've done it this time.' And you may be right. God gave you this gift of imagination. Use it. Let all these things just sort of happen. If there's two big trees invariably sooner or later there's gonna be a little tree.

This is gonna be a happy little seascape. This present moment is perfect simply due to the fact you're experiencing it. The man who does the best job is the one who is happy at his job.

There comes a nice little fluffer. This is an example of what you can do with just a few things, a little imagination and a happy dream in your heart. I really recommend you use odorless thinner or your spouse is gonna run you right out into the yard and you'll be working by yourself. We'll take a little bit of Van Dyke Brown. Every time you practice, you learn more. If what you're doing doesn't make you happy - you're doing the wrong thing.

You don't have to be crazy to do this but it does help. I thought today we would make a happy little stream that's just running through the woods here. Take your time. Speed will come later. The secret to doing anything is believing that you can do it. Anything that you believe you can do strong enough, you can do. Anything. As long as you believe.

I thought today we would do a happy little picture. Let's put some happy little clouds in our world. Do an almighty painting with us. I guess that would be considered a UFO. A big cotton ball in the sky. We'll paint one happy little tree right here. This is the way you take out your flustrations.

You need the dark in order to show the light. How to paint. That's easy. What to paint. That's much harder. Let's make a happy little mountain now.

Have fun with it. You don't want to kill all your dark areas they are very important. Work that paint. See how easy it is to create a little tree right in your world. Trees cover up a multitude of sins. Let's make some happy little clouds in our world.

There it is. If you don't think every day is a good day - try missing a few. You'll see. We're not trying to teach you a thing to copy. We're just here to teach you a technique, then let you loose into the world.

We have all at one time or another mixed some mud. You have freedom here. The only guide is your heart. Let that brush dance around there and play. Let's put some happy trees and bushes back in here. Follow the lay of the land. It's most important.

We'll put some happy little leaves here and there. Didn't you know you had that much power? You can move mountains. You can do anything. You're the greatest thing that has ever been or ever will be. You're special. You're so very special. You can spend all day playing with mountains. We want to use a lot pressure while using no pressure at all.

Only God can make a tree - but you can paint one. All you have to do is let your imagination go wild. It's a super day, so why not make a beautiful sky?

Just use the old one inch brush. It's a good way of getting rid of all your anxieties and hostilities. If you do too much it's going to lose its effectiveness. So often we avoid running water, and running water is a lot of fun. Isn't that fantastic? You can just push a little tree out of your brush like that.

The first step to doing anything is to believe you can do it. See it finished in your mind before you ever start. Don't forget to tell these special people in your life just how special they are to you. Here we're limited by the time we have. Isn't it great to do something you can't fail at? At home you have unlimited time.

This is the time to get out all your flustrations, much better than kicking the dog around the house or taking it out on your spouse. Nothing wrong with washing your brush. We're trying to teach you a technique here and how to use it. When you do it your way you can go anywhere you choose. Volunteering your time; it pays you and your whole community fantastic dividends. Clouds are free they come and go as they please.

There are no limits in this world. Automatically, all of these beautiful, beautiful things will happen. There's nothing wrong with having a tree as a friend. When things happen - enjoy them. They're little gifts.

When you buy that first tube of paint it gives you an artist license. I think there's an artist hidden in the bottom of every single one of us. I'm going to mix up a little color. We’ll use Van Dyke Brown, Permanent Red, and a little bit of Prussian Blue. Let's build an almighty mountain. No worries. No cares. Just float and wait for the wind to blow you around. Work on one thing at a time. Don't get carried away - we have plenty of time.

Everybody needs a friend. I sincerely wish for you every possible joy life could bring. Let's put some happy little bushes on the other side now. It's almost like something out of a fairytale book.

It is a lot of fun. This is probably the greatest thing to happen in my life - to be able to share this with you. Those great big fluffy clouds.

It's so important to do something every day that will make you happy. Don't fight it, use what happens. There are no mistakes. You can fix anything that happens. The only thing worse than yellow snow is green snow.

That's crazy. Just think about these things in your mind and drop em' on canvas. The little tiny Tim easels will let you down. It's beautiful - and we haven't even done anything to it yet. Let all these little things happen. Don't fight them. Learn to use them. Trees grow in all kinds of ways. They're not all perfectly straight. Not every limb is perfect.

They say everything looks better with odd numbers of things. But sometimes I put even numbers—just to upset the critics. You don't have to spend all your time thinking about what you're doing, you just let it happen. Just a happy little shadow that lives in there. You could sit here for weeks with your one hair brush trying to do that - or you could do it with one stroke with an almighty brush. There isn't a rule. You just practice and find out which way works best for you. Talent is a pursued interest. That is to say, anything you practice you can do.

It looks so good, I might as well not stop. La- da- da- da- dah. Just be happy. Fluff it up a little and hypnotize it. Maybe we got a few little happy bushes here, just covered with snow. Everybody's different. Trees are different. Let them all be individuals. We'll put all the little clouds in and let them dance around and have fun.

Let's have a happy little tree in here. Absolutely no pressure. You are just a whisper floating across a mountain. Don't be bashful drop me a line.

Maybe there was an old trapper that lived out here and maybe one day he went to check his beaver traps, and maybe he fell into the river and drowned. I'm sort of a softy, I couldn't shoot Bambi except with a camera. Only think about one thing at a time. Don't get greedy. Don't fiddle with it all day. Sometimes you learn more from your mistakes than you do from your masterpieces.

Let's put a touch more of the magic here. We can always carry this a step further. There's really no end to this. That's the way I look when I get home late; black and blue. In your world you can create anything you desire.

That's why I paint - because I can create the kind of world I want - and I can make this world as happy as I want it. Just let go - and fall like a little waterfall. Isn't that fantastic that you can create an almighty tree that fast?

We don't really know where this goes - and I'm not sure we really care. Don't hurry. Take your time and enjoy. That's a crooked tree. We'll send him to Washington. Let's have a nice tree right here. This is a happy place, little squirrels live here and play. It's important to me that you're happy.

Let's get wild today. A fan brush is a fantastic piece of equipment. Use it. Make friends with it. Everyone needs a friend. Friends are the most valuable things in the world. Even trees need a friend. We all need friends. A thin paint will stick to a thick paint. Now we'll take the almighty fan brush.

In your imagination you can go anywhere you want. We don't have to be concerned about it. We just have to let it fall where it will. In life you need colors. Just go out and talk to a tree. Make friends with it. You have to make almighty decisions when you're the creator. Now we don't want him to get lonely, so we'll give him a little friend.

See. We take the corner of the brush and let it play back-and-forth. Fluff that up. That's a son of a gun of a cloud. We don't have to be committed. We are just playing here.

A tree needs to be your friend if you're going to paint him. You can do anything your heart can imagine. Let your heart be your guide.

You're meant to have fun in life. Use absolutely no pressure. Just like an angel's wing. Now, we're going to fluff this cloud. Put your feelings into it, your heart, it's your world. Any little thing can be your friend if you let it be. How do you make a round circle with a square knife? That's your challenge for the day.

See there how easy that is. Let the paint work. These trees are so much fun. I get started on them and I have a hard time stopping. In this world, everything can be happy. Maybe there's a happy little Evergreen that lives here.

Isn't that fantastic? Each highlight must have it's own private shadow. Just think about these things in your mind - then bring them into your world. We must be quiet, soft and gentle.

Nice little fluffy clouds laying around in the sky being lazy. Remember how free clouds are. They just lay around in the sky all day long. Only eight colors that you need. You have to make those little noises or it won't work. Now let's put some happy little clouds in here. Use your imagination, let it go.

Just pretend you are a whisper floating across a mountain. Look around, look at what we have. Beauty is everywhere, you only have to look to see it. We don't need any guidelines or formats. All we need to do is just let it flow right out of us. Let your heart take you to wherever you want to be. Let's get crazy. We have a fantastic little sky!

We'll make some happy little bushes here. I'll go over the colors one more time that we use: Titanium white, Thalo green, Prussian blue, Van Dyke brown, Alizarin crimson, Sap green, Cad yellow, and Permanent red. In your world you have total and absolute power. It's life. It's interesting. It's fun. Trees live in your fan brush, but you have to scare them out.

We'll throw some old gray clouds in here just sneaking around and having fun. We can fix anything. I'm gonna start with a little Alizarin crimson and a touch of Prussian blue Let's make some happy little clouds in our world. You can do anything here - the only pre-requisite is that it makes you happy.

And that's when it becomes fun - you don't have to spend your time thinking about what's happening - you just let it happen. Everything's not great in life, but we can still find beauty in it. Let's go up in here, and start having some fun

A happy cloud. Let's make a nice big leafy tree. I really believe that if you practice enough you could paint the 'Mona Lisa' with a two-inch brush. Decide where your cloud lives. Maybe he lives right in here. The only prerequisite is that it makes you happy. If it makes you happy then it's good.

And right there you got an almighty cloud. And I will hypnotize that just a little bit. Let's have a little bit of fun today. If you overwork it you become a cloud killer. There's nothing worse than a cloud killer. We don't make mistakes we just have happy little accidents. Be brave.

You gotta think like a tree. Be so very light. Be a gentle whisper. This is your world, whatever makes you happy you can put in it. Go crazy. Just beat the devil out of it.

Talk to trees, look at the birds. Whatever it takes. All you have to learn here is how to have fun. You create the dream - then you bring it into your world. Trees grow however makes them happy.

If we're gonna walk though the woods, we need a little path. This piece of canvas is your world. Nothing's gonna make your husband or wife madder than coming home and having a snow-covered dinner.

It's a very cold picture, I may have to go get my coat. It’s about to freeze me to death. I started painting as a hobby when I was little. I didn't know I had any talent. I believe talent is just a pursued interest. Anybody can do what I do. Put light against light - you have nothing. Put dark against dark - you have nothing. It's the contrast of light and dark that each give the other one meaning. All you need to paint is a few tools, a little instruction, and a vision in your mind. There's not a thing in the world wrong with washing your brush. Just relax and let it flow. That easy.

What the devil. Happy painting, God bless. I'm a water fanatic. I love water. Of course he's a happy little stone, cause we don't have any other kind.

We'll lay all these little funky little things in there. You can create anything that makes you happy. Pretend you're water. Just floating without any effort. Having a good day. Every day I learn. Maybe there's a happy little waterfall happening over here. Nice little clouds playing around in the sky.

Put it in, leave it alone. Once you learn the technique, ohhh! Turn you loose on the world; you become a tiger. If these lines aren't straight, your water's going to run right out of your painting and get your floor wet.

Life is too short to be alone, too precious. Share it with a friend. We don't want to set these clouds on fire. There is no right or wrong - as long as it makes you happy and doesn't hurt anyone. Maybe there's a happy little bush that lives right there. Don't be afraid to make these big decisions. Once you start, they sort of just make themselves. We have no limits to our world. We're only limited by our imagination.

Everything is happy if you choose to make it that way. Use what happens naturally, don't fight it. Go out on a limb - that's where the fruit is. Let's build some happy little clouds up here. Even the worst thing we can do here is good.

You can get away with a lot. A beautiful little sunset. Just make little strokes like that. Isn't it fantastic that you can change your mind and create all these happy things? I spend a lot of time walking around in the woods and talking to trees, and squirrels, and little rabbits and stuff.

If it's not what you want - stop and change it. Don't just keep going and expect it will get better. Everyone wants to enjoy the good parts - but you have to build the framework first. You have to allow the paint to break to make it beautiful. I want everbody to be happy. That's what it's all about. That's what makes life fun. That you can make these decisions. That you can create the world that you want. Almost everything is going to happen for you automatically - you don't have to spend any time working or worrying.

With practice comes confidence. Painting should do one thing. It should put happiness in your heart. We tell people sometimes: we're like drug dealers, come into town and get everybody absolutely addicted to painting. It doesn't take much to get you addicted. If you hypnotize it, it will go away. Imagination is the key to painting.

With something so strong, a little bit can go a long way. Very easy to work these to death. Just let your mind wander and enjoy. This should make you happy.

We might as well make some Almighty mountains today as well, what the heck. Just go back and put one little more happy tree in there. From all of us here, I want to wish you happy painting and God bless, my friends.

There we go. Steve wants reflections, so let's give him reflections. Let your imagination be your guide.

It's amazing what you can do with a little love in your heart. Anything you want to do you can do here. We artists are a different breed of people. We're a happy bunch. Brown is such a nice color.

It's cold, but it's beautiful. You are only limited by your imagination. We need dark in order to show light.

Mix your color marbly don't mix it dead. Use what you see, don't plan it. Every single thing in the world has its own personality - and it is up to you to make friends with the little rascals.

I like to beat the brush. Get tough with it, get strong. Here's something that's fun. Let your imagination be your guide. There is immense joy in just watching - watching all the little creatures in nature. This is truly an almighty mountain.

Every highlight needs it's own personal shadow. We'll do another happy little painting. The shadows are just like the highlights, but we're going in the opposite direction. I guess I'm a little weird. I like to talk to trees and animals. That's okay though; I have more fun than most people.

Now then, let's play. The more we do this - the more it will do good things to our heart. It just happens - whether or not you worried about it or tried to plan it. You have to make these big decisions.

No pressure. Just relax and watch it happen. I get carried away with this brush cleaning. The light is your friend. Preserve it.

A tree cannot be straight if it has a crooked trunk. We don't have anything but happy trees here. These little son of a guns hide in your brush and you just have to push them out. That's what painting is all about. It should make you feel good when you paint. Poor old tree.

We'll have a super time. We start with a vision in our heart, and we put it on canvas. Van Dyke Brown is a very nice brown, it's almost like a chocolate brown.

Think about a cloud. Just float around and be there. I was blessed with a very steady hand; and it comes in very handy when you're doing these little delicate things. We wash our brush with odorless thinner.

Tree trunks grow however makes them happy. You better get your coat out, this is going to be a cold painting. Trees get lonely too, so we'll give him a little friend.

In nature, dead trees are just as normal as live trees. That is when you can experience true joy, when you have no fear. Paint anything you want on the canvas. Create your own world. But they're very easily killed. Clouds are delicate.

You can't make a mistake. Anything that happens you can learn to use - and make something beautiful out of it. We spend so much of our life looking - but never seeing. You can do anything here. So don't worry about it. Son of a gun. Everyone is going to see things differently - and that's the way it should be. This is where you take out all your hostilities and frustrations. It's better than kicking the puppy dog around and all that so.

You can work and carry-on and put lots of little happy things in here. This is probably the greatest thing that's ever happened in my life. Anyone can paint. If you've been in Alaska less than a year you're a Cheechako. Little trees and bushes grow however makes them happy.

Let's put some highlights on these little trees. The sun wouldn't forget them. You've got to learn to fight the temptation to resist these things. Just let them happen. Maybe there's a little something happening right here. I will take some magic white, and a little bit of Vandyke brown and a little touch of yellow.

If I paint something, I don't want to have to explain what it is. You got your heavy coat out yet? It's getting colder. If we're going to have animals around we all have to be concerned about them and take care of them. For the lack of a better word I call them hangy downs.

You can create beautiful things - but you have to see them in your mind first. And just raise cain. This is your world.

As trees get older they lose their chlorophyll. This is the fun part Now it's beginning to make a little sense. Exercising the imagination, experimenting with talents, being creative; these things, to me, are truly the windows to your soul.

But we're not there yet, so we don't need to worry about it. Let's give him a friend too. Everybody needs a friend. This is your creation - and it's just as unique and special as you are. This painting comes right out of your heart. You can't have light without dark. You can't know happiness unless you've known sorrow. Just let this happen. We just let this flow right out of our minds.

Water's like me. It's laaazy ... Boy, it always looks for the easiest way to do things This is unplanned it really just happens. Learn when to stop. Don't kill all your dark areas - you need them to show the light. Nature is so fantastic, enjoy it. Let it make you happy.

Clouds are free. They just float around the sky all day and have fun. You want your tree to have some character. Make it special. All kinds of happy little splashes. Let's do it again then, what the heck. Be careful. You can always add more - but you can't take it away.

Let's do that again. Just take out whatever you don't want. It'll change your entire perspective. Making all those little fluffies that live in the clouds.

The least little bit can do so much. It's hard to see things when you're too close. Take a step back and look. See there, told you that would be easy. You can do it. If you don't like it - change it. It's your world.

Now we can begin working on lots of happy little things. We'll play with clouds today. Anytime you learn something your time and energy are not wasted. Just make a decision and let it go. If you didn't have baby clouds, you wouldn't have big clouds. You can create the world you want to see and be a part of. You have that power.

In painting, you have unlimited power. You have the ability to move mountains. You can bend rivers. But when I get home, the only thing I have power over is the garbage. The very fact that you're aware of suffering is enough reason to be overjoyed that you're alive and can experience it. A big strong tree needs big strong roots. Working it up and down, back and forth. I can't think of anything more rewarding than being able to express yourself to others through painting.

A little happy sunlight shining through there. Maybe he has a little friend that lives right over here. Get away from those little Christmas tree things we used to make in school.

These things happen automatically. All you have to do is just let them happen. And I know you're saying, 'Oh Bob, you've done it this time.' And you may be right. God gave you this gift of imagination. Use it. Let all these things just sort of happen. If there's two big trees invariably sooner or later there's gonna be a little tree. This is gonna be a happy little seascape.

This present moment is perfect simply due to the fact you're experiencing it. The man who does the best job is the one who is happy at his job. There comes a nice little fluffer. This is an example of what you can do with just a few things, a little imagination and a happy dream in your heart. I really recommend you use odorless thinner or your spouse is gonna run you right out into the yard and you'll be working by yourself. We'll take a little bit of Van Dyke Brown.

Every time you practice, you learn more. If what you're doing doesn't make you happy - you're doing the wrong thing. You don't have to be crazy to do this but it does help. I thought today we would make a happy little stream that's just running through the woods here. Take your time. Speed will come later.

The secret to doing anything is believing that you can do it. Anything that you believe you can do strong enough, you can do. Anything. As long as you believe. I thought today we would do a happy little picture. Let's put some happy little clouds in our world. Do an almighty painting with us. I guess that would be considered a UFO. A big cotton ball in the sky. We'll paint one happy little tree right here.

This is the way you take out your flustrations. You need the dark in order to show the light. How to paint. That's easy. What to paint. That's much harder. Let's make a happy little mountain now. Have fun with it.

You don't want to kill all your dark areas they are very important. Work that paint. See how easy it is to create a little tree right in your world. Trees cover up a multitude of sins. Let's make some happy little clouds in our world.

There it is. If you don't think every day is a good day - try missing a few. You'll see. We're not trying to teach you a thing to copy. We're just here to teach you a technique, then let you loose into the world. We have all at one time or another mixed some mud. You have freedom here. The only guide is your heart. Let that brush dance around there and play.

Let's put some happy trees and bushes back in here. Follow the lay of the land. It's most important. We'll put some happy little leaves here and there.

Didn't you know you had that much power? You can move mountains. You can do anything. You're the greatest thing that has ever been or ever will be. You're special. You're so very special. You can spend all day playing with mountains. We want to use a lot pressure while using no pressure at all.

Only God can make a tree - but you can paint one. All you have to do is let your imagination go wild. It's a super day, so why not make a beautiful sky?

Just use the old one inch brush. It's a good way of getting rid of all your anxieties and hostilities. If you do too much it's going to lose its effectiveness. So often we avoid running water, and running water is a lot of fun.

Isn't that fantastic? You can just push a little tree out of your brush like that. The first step to doing anything is to believe you can do it. See it finished in your mind before you ever start. Don't forget to tell these special people in your life just how special they are to you. Here we're limited by the time we have. Isn't it great to do something you can't fail at? At home you have unlimited time.

This is the time to get out all your flustrations, much better than kicking the dog around the house or taking it out on your spouse. Nothing wrong with washing your brush. We're trying to teach you a technique here and how to use it. When you do it your way you can go anywhere you choose. Volunteering your time; it pays you and your whole community fantastic dividends.

Clouds are free they come and go as they please. There are no limits in this world. Automatically, all of these beautiful, beautiful things will happen. There's nothing wrong with having a tree as a friend.

When things happen - enjoy them. They're little gifts. When you buy that first tube of paint it gives you an artist license. I think there's an artist hidden in the bottom of every single one of us. I'm going to mix up a little color. We’ll use Van Dyke Brown, Permanent Red, and a little bit of Prussian Blue. Let's build an almighty mountain. No worries. No cares. Just float and wait for the wind to blow you around.

Work on one thing at a time. Don't get carried away - we have plenty of time. Everybody needs a friend. I sincerely wish for you every possible joy life could bring. Let's put some happy little bushes on the other side now. It's almost like something out of a fairytale book.

It is a lot of fun. This is probably the greatest thing to happen in my life - to be able to share this with you. Those great big fluffy clouds. It's so important to do something every day that will make you happy. Don't fight it, use what happens. There are no mistakes. You can fix anything that happens.

The only thing worse than yellow snow is green snow. That's crazy. Just think about these things in your mind and drop em' on canvas. The little tiny Tim easels will let you down.

It's beautiful - and we haven't even done anything to it yet. Let all these little things happen. Don't fight them. Learn to use them. Trees grow in all kinds of ways. They're not all perfectly straight. Not every limb is perfect. They say everything looks better with odd numbers of things. But sometimes I put even numbers—just to upset the critics. You don't have to spend all your time thinking about what you're doing, you just let it happen.

Just a happy little shadow that lives in there. You could sit here for weeks with your one hair brush trying to do that - or you could do it with one stroke with an almighty brush. There isn't a rule. You just practice and find out which way works best for you. Talent is a pursued interest. That is to say, anything you practice you can do. It looks so good, I might as well not stop.

La- da- da- da- dah. Just be happy. Fluff it up a little and hypnotize it. Maybe we got a few little happy bushes here, just covered with snow. Everybody's different. Trees are different. Let them all be individuals. We'll put all the little clouds in and let them dance around and have fun. Let's have a happy little tree in here.

Absolutely no pressure. You are just a whisper floating across a mountain. Don't be bashful drop me a line. Maybe there was an old trapper that lived out here and maybe one day he went to check his beaver traps, and maybe he fell into the river and drowned.

I'm sort of a softy, I couldn't shoot Bambi except with a camera. Only think about one thing at a time. Don't get greedy. Don't fiddle with it all day. Sometimes you learn more from your mistakes than you do from your masterpieces.

Let's put a touch more of the magic here. We can always carry this a step further. There's really no end to this. That's the way I look when I get home late; black and blue. In your world you can create anything you desire.

That's why I paint - because I can create the kind of world I want - and I can make this world as happy as I want it. Just let go - and fall like a little waterfall. Isn't that fantastic that you can create an almighty tree that fast? We don't really know where this goes - and I'm not sure we really care.

Don't hurry. Take your time and enjoy. That's a crooked tree. We'll send him to Washington. Let's have a nice tree right here. This is a happy place, little squirrels live here and play. It's important to me that you're happy.

Let's get wild today. A fan brush is a fantastic piece of equipment. Use it. Make friends with it. Everyone needs a friend. Friends are the most valuable things in the world. Even trees need a friend. We all need friends. A thin paint will stick to a thick paint.

Now we'll take the almighty fan brush. In your imagination you can go anywhere you want. We don't have to be concerned about it. We just have to let it fall where it will.

In life you need colors. Just go out and talk to a tree. Make friends with it. You have to make almighty decisions when you're the creator. Now we don't want him to get lonely, so we'll give him a little friend.

See. We take the corner of the brush and let it play back-and-forth. Fluff that up. That's a son of a gun of a cloud. We don't have to be committed. We are just playing here. A tree needs to be your friend if you're going to paint him. You can do anything your heart can imagine.

Let your heart be your guide. You're meant to have fun in life. Use absolutely no pressure. Just like an angel's wing.

Now, we're going to fluff this cloud. Put your feelings into it, your heart, it's your world. Any little thing can be your friend if you let it be.

How do you make a round circle with a square knife? That's your challenge for the day. See there how easy that is. Let the paint work. These trees are so much fun. I get started on them and I have a hard time stopping. In this world, everything can be happy. Maybe there's a happy little Evergreen that lives here.

Isn't that fantastic? Each highlight must have it's own private shadow. Just think about these things in your mind - then bring them into your world. We must be quiet, soft and gentle. Nice little fluffy clouds laying around in the sky being lazy. Remember how free clouds are. They just lay around in the sky all day long.

Only eight colors that you need. You have to make those little noises or it won't work. Now let's put some happy little clouds in here. Use your imagination, let it go. Just pretend you are a whisper floating across a mountain.

Look around, look at what we have. Beauty is everywhere, you only have to look to see it. We don't need any guidelines or formats. All we need to do is just let it flow right out of us. Let your heart take you to wherever you want to be. Let's get crazy. We have a fantastic little sky!

We'll make some happy little bushes here. I'll go over the colors one more time that we use: Titanium white, Thalo green, Prussian blue, Van Dyke brown, Alizarin crimson, Sap green, Cad yellow, and Permanent red. In your world you have total and absolute power. It's life. It's interesting. It's fun. Trees live in your fan brush, but you have to scare them out.

We'll throw some old gray clouds in here just sneaking around and having fun. We can fix anything. I'm gonna start with a little Alizarin crimson and a touch of Prussian blue Let's make some happy little clouds in our world. You can do anything here - the only pre-requisite is that it makes you happy. And that's when it becomes fun - you don't have to spend your time thinking about what's happening - you just let it happen.

Everything's not great in life, but we can still find beauty in it. Let's go up in here, and start having some fun A happy cloud. Let's make a nice big leafy tree. I really believe that if you practice enough you could paint the 'Mona Lisa' with a two-inch brush.

Decide where your cloud lives. Maybe he lives right in here. The only prerequisite is that it makes you happy. If it makes you happy then it's good. And right there you got an almighty cloud.

And I will hypnotize that just a little bit. Let's have a little bit of fun today. If you overwork it you become a cloud killer. There's nothing worse than a cloud killer.

We don't make mistakes we just have happy little accidents. Be brave. You gotta think like a tree. Be so very light. Be a gentle whisper. This is your world, whatever makes you happy you can put in it. Go crazy. Just beat the devil out of it.

